{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red108\green108\blue108;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red14\green14\blue14;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15600\viewh13520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<strong>\cf0 Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and my fellow \cf4 Americans:\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
Less than one year has passed since \cf2 <strong>\cf4 I\cf5 </strong>\cf0  first stood at this podium, in this majestic chamber, to \cf2 <strong>\cf4 speak\cf5 </strong>\cf0  on behalf of the American People \'96 and \cf2 <strong>\cf4 to\cf5 </strong>\cf0  address their concerns, their hopes, and their dreams. That \cf2 <strong>\cf4 night,\cf5 </strong>\cf0  our new Administration had already taken swift action. \cf2 <strong>\cf4 A\cf5 </strong>\cf0  new \cf2 <strong>\cf4 tide of\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 optimism was already s\cf2 <strong>\cf4 weeping\cf0  \cf4 across our land.\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Each day\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 since, we have gone \cf6 forward\cf0  with a clear vision and a righteous mission \'96 to make America great again for all Americans.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Over the last year we have made incredible progress and achieved extraordinary success.\'a0\cf2 <strong>\cf4 We have faced challenges\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 we expected, and others we could never have imagined. We have shared in the heights of victory \cf2 <strong>\cf4 and the pains of hardship. We endured floods and fires and \cf5 </strong>\cf0 storms.\cf4  \cf2 <strong>\cf4 B\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ut thro\cf2 <strong>\cf4 u\cf5 </strong>\cf0 gh it a\cf2 <strong>\cf4 ll\cf5 </strong>\cf0 , we have \cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf5 </strong>\cf0 een t\cf2 <strong>\cf4 h\cf5 </strong>\cf0 e beauty of Amer\cf2 <strong>\cf4 i\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ca\'92s soul, and the s\cf2 <strong>\cf4 t\cf5 </strong>\cf0 eel in America\'92s spine\cf4 .\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Each test\cf5 </strong>\cf0  has forged new\'a0American heroes\cf2 <strong>\cf0 \'a0\cf4 to remind us who\cf5 </strong>\cf0  we are, and show us what we \cf2 <strong>\cf4 can\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 be.\
We saw the volunteers of the \'93Cajun Navy,\'94 racing to the rescue with their fishing boats to\cf2 <strong>\cf4  save people\cf5 </strong>\cf0  in the aftermath of a devastating hurricane.\
We saw strangers shielding strangers\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 from a hail of gunfire\cf5 </strong>\cf0  on the Las Vegas strip\cf4 .\cf0 \
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 We heard tales of\cf5 </strong>\cf0  Americans like Coast Guard \cf2 <strong>\cf4 Petty\cf5 </strong>\cf0  Officer Ashlee Leppert, who is here tonight in the gallery with Melania. Ashlee was aboard one of the first helicopters on the scene in Houston during Hurricane Harvey. Through 18 hours of wind and rain, Ashlee braved live \cf2 <strong>\cf4 power\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 lines\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 and\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 deep water, to help save more than 40 lives. Thank you, Ashlee.\
We heard about Americans like firefighter David Dahlberg. He is here with us too. David faced down \cf2 <strong>\cf4 walls of flame\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to rescue almost 60 children trapped at a California summer camp threatened by wildfires\cf4 .\cf0 \
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 To everyone still recovering,\cf5 </strong>\cf0  in Texas\cf4 ,\cf0  Florida, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, California, and everywhere else \'96 we are with you, we love you, and we will pull through together.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Some trials\cf5 </strong>\cf0  over the past year touched this chamber very personally. With us tonight is one of the toughest people ever to serve in this House \'96 a guy who took a bullet, almost died, and was back to work three and a half months later: the legend from Louisiana, Congressman Steve Scalise.\
We \cf2 <strong>\cf4 are\cf5 </strong>\cf0  incredibly grateful for the heroic efforts of the Capitol Police Officers, the Alexandria Police, and the doctors, nurses, and paramedics who saved his life, and the lives of many others in this room.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In the aftermath of that terrible shooting, we came together, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as \cf2 <strong>\cf4 representative\cf5 </strong>\cf0 s \cf2 <strong>\cf4 of\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the people.\'a0But it is not enough to come together only in times of tragedy. Tonight, I call upon all of us to set aside\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 our differences\cf5 </strong>\cf0 , to seek out common ground, and to summon the unity we need to deliver for the people we were elected to serve.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Over the last year, the world has seen what we always knew:\cf5 </strong>\cf0  that no people on Earth are so fearless, or daring, or determined as Americans.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 If there is a\cf5 </strong>\cf0  mountain, we \cf2 <strong>\cf4 cl\cf5 </strong>\cf0 imb \cf2 <strong>\cf4 it\cf5 </strong>\cf0 . If there is a frontier, we cross it. If there is a challenge, we tame it. \cf2 <strong>\cf4 I\cf5 </strong>\cf0 f there is an opportunity, we \cf2 <strong>\cf4 seize it. So let us begin\cf0  \cf4 tonight\cf0  \cf4 by recognizing that the state of our Union is\cf5 </strong>\cf0  strong because our people are st\cf2 <strong>\cf4 rong.\cf0  \cf4 And together, we are building\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 a safe, strong, and proud America.\
Since the election, we have created 2.4 million new jobs, including 200,000 new jobs in manufacturing alone.After years of wage stagnation, we are finally seeing rising wages.\
Unemployment claims have hit\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 a 45-year low.\cf0  \cf4 African-American\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 and Hispanic American\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 unemployment has also\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 r\cf5 </strong>\cf0 eached the lowest levels in history.\
Sm\cf2 <strong>\cf4 a\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ll business\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 c\cf5 </strong>\cf0 onf\cf2 <strong>\cf4 i\cf5 </strong>\cf0 dence i\cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf5 </strong>\cf0  at an all-ti\cf2 <strong>\cf4 m\cf5 </strong>\cf0 e high. The stock market\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 has smashed\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 one record after another, gaining $8 trillion in value. That is great news for Americans\'92 401k, retirement, pension, and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 college savings accounts.\cf0  \cf4 And just as I promised\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the American people from this podium 11 months ago,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 we enacted the biggest\cf5 </strong>\cf0  tax cuts and reforms in American history.\
Our massive tax cuts provide\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 tremendous\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 relief for the middle class and small businesses.\
To lower tax rates for\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 hardworking\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Americans, we nearly\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 double\cf5 </strong>\cf0 d the\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 standard \cf5 </strong>\cf0 deduction for everyone. Now, the first $24,000 earned by a married couple is completely tax-free. We also doubled the child tax credit.\
A typical family of four making $75,000 will see their\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 tax bill\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 reduced by $2,000\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 \'96 slashing\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 their tax bill in half.\
This April will be the last time you ever file under the old broken system \'96 and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 millions of Americans\cf5 </strong>\cf0  will have more take-home pay starting next month.\
<strong>We eliminated</strong> an especially cruel tax that fell mostly on Americans making less than $50,000 a year \'96 forcing them to pay tremendous penalties simply because they could not afford government-ordered health plans.\'a0We repealed <strong>the core of </strong>disastrous <strong>Obama</strongcare \'96\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 the individual\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 mandate\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 is now gone.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf4 We slashed\cf5 </strong>\cf0  the business tax rate from 35 percent all the way down\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to\cf5 </strong>\cf0  21 percent, so American companies can compete and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 win\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 against anyone in the world.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 These changes alone are estimated to increase\cf5 </strong>\cf0  average fa\cf2 <strong>\cf4 m\cf5 </strong>\cf0 il\cf2 <strong>\cf4 y\cf0  \cf4 income by more than\cf5 </strong>\cf0  $4,000.\
Small businesses have also received a massive tax cut, and can now deduct \cf2 <strong>\cf4 20 percent\cf5 </strong>\cf0  of their business income.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Here tonight\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 are Steve Staub and Sandy Keplinger of Staub Manufacturing \'96 a small business in Ohio. They have just finished the best year in their 20-year history. \cf2 <strong>\cf4 Because of \cf5 </strong>\cf0 tax refor\cf2 <strong>\cf4 m\cf5 </strong>\cf0 , the\cf2 <strong>\cf4 y\cf5 </strong>\cf0  are handing out raises, hiring an additional 14 people, and \cf2 <strong>\cf4 expanding\cf5 </strong>\cf0  into th\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 buildin\cf2 <strong>\cf4 g\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 next do\cf2 <strong>\cf4 o\cf5 </strong>\cf0 r.\
One of Staub\'92s employees, Corey Adams, is also with us tonight. Corey is an all-American worker. He supported himself through high school, lost his job during the 2008 recession, and was later hired by Staub, where he trained to become a welder. Like many hardworking Americans, Corey plans to invest his tax\uc0\u8209 cut raise into his new home and his two daughters\'92 education.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Please join me in congratulating\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Corey.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Since we passed tax cuts, roughly 3 million workers have already gotten tax cut bonuses \'96 many of them thousands of dollars per worker.\'a0Apple has just announced it plans to invest a total of $350 billion in A\cf2 <strong>\cf4 me\cf5 </strong>\cf0 rica, and hire another 20,000 workers.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 This is our new America\cf5 </strong>\cf0 n moment.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 There has never been a better time to \cf5 </strong>\cf0 start living the American Dream.\
So to every citizen watching at home tonight \'96 no matter where you have been, o\cf2 <strong>\cf4 r\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 wher\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 you come from, thi\cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf5 </strong>\cf2 <strong>\cf4  is\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 your \cf2 <strong>\cf4 t\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ime. If you work hard, if you believe in yourself, if you believe in America, then you can dream anything, you can be anything, and together, we can achieve anything.\
Tonight, I want to talk about what kind of future we are going to have, and what kind of Nation we are going to be. All of us, together, as one team, one people, and one American family.\
We all share the same home, the same heart, the same destiny, and the same great American flag.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Together, we are rediscovering the American way.\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf4 In America, \cf2 <strong>\cf4 we know that\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 faith and family, not\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 government and bureaucracy, are the center of the American life.\cf5 </strong>\cf0  Our motto is \'93in God we trust.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 And we celebrate our police, our military, and our amazing veterans as heroes who deserve our total and unwavering support.\cf5 </strong>\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here tonight is Preston Sharp, a 12-year-old boy from Redding, California, who noticed that veterans\'92 graves were not marked with flags on Veterans Day. He decided to change that, and started a movement that has now placed 40,000 flags at the graves of our great heroes. Preston: a job well done.\
Young patriots like Preston teach all of us about our civic duty as Americans. Preston\'92s\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 reverence for\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 those\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 w\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ho\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 h\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ave served our Nat\cf2 <strong>\cf4 i\cf5 </strong>\cf0 on reminds us why we salu\cf2 <strong>\cf4 te\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our flag, why we\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 p\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ut our hands on our h\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 arts f\cf2 <strong>\cf4 o\cf5 </strong>\cf0 r the \cf2 <strong>\cf4 p\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ledge of a\cf2 <strong>\cf4 l\cf5 </strong>\cf0 legianc\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ,\'a0and why we proudly stand for the national anthem.\
Americans love their country. And they deserve a Government that\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 shows\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 them the same love and loyalty in return.\
For the last year we have sought to restore the \cf2 <strong>\cf4 bonds of trust between\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our citizens and their Go\cf2 <strong>\cf4 v\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ernment.\
Work\cf2 <strong>\cf4 i\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ng with the Senate, we are appointing judges wh\cf2 <strong>\cf4 o\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 wil\cf2 <strong>\cf4 l\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 interpr\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 t the Co\cf2 <strong>\cf4 n\cf5 </strong>\cf0 stitution as written, in\cf2 <strong>\cf4 c\cf5 </strong>\cf0 luding\'a0a gr\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 at new Supreme Court Justice,\cf2 <strong>\cf0 \'a0\cf4 and\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 more circuit court judges than any new administration in\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 the history of our country.\
We are defending our Second Amendment,\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 and have taken historic actions to protect religious liberty.\
And we are serving our brave veterans, including giving our veterans choice in their healthcare decisions. Last year, the Congress passed, and I signed, the landmark VA Accountability Act. Since its passage, my Administration has already removed more than 1,500 VA employees who failed to give our veterans the care they deserve \'96\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 and we are hiring talented people who love\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our vets as\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 m\cf5 </strong>\cf0 uch\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 as\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 we do.\
I will not\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 s\cf5 </strong>\cf0 top until our veteran\cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 are properly taken care of, w\cf2 <strong>\cf4 h\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ich has been my pr\cf2 <strong>\cf4 o\cf5 </strong>\cf0 mise t\cf2 <strong>\cf4 o\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 them from\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 t\cf5 </strong>\cf0 he very beginn\cf2 <strong>\cf4 ing\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 of thi\cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf5 </strong>\cf0  great journey.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 All Americans deserve accountability and respect \'96 and that is what we are giving them. So tonight, I call on the Congress to empower every \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Cabinet\cf2 <strong>\cf4  Secretary with the authority to \cf5 </strong>\cf0 reward good workers \'96 and to remove Federal employees who undermine the public trust or\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 fail the American people.\
In our drive to make\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Wa\cf2 <strong>\cf4 shi\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ng\cf2 <strong>\cf4 t\cf5 </strong>\cf0 on accountable,\cf2 <strong>\cf0 \'a0\cf4 we have eliminated more regulations in our first year than any administration in history.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf4 We have ended the war on American Energy \'96 and we have ended the war on clean coal\cf0 . \cf5 </strong>\cf0 We are now an exporter of energy to the world.\
In Detroit, I halted Government mandates that crippled America\'92s autoworkers\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 \'96 so we can get the\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Motor City\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 revving\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 its\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 engines once again. \cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
Many car companies are now building and expanding plants in the United States \'96 something we have not seen for decades. Chrysler is moving a major plant from Mexico to Michigan; Toyota and Mazda are opening up a plant in Alabama.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Soon, plants will be\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 opening up all over the country. This is all news Americans are unaccustomed to hearing \'96 for many years, companies and jobs were only\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 leaving us\cf5 </strong>\cf0 . But now they are coming back.\
Exciting progress is happening\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 every day. \cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
To speed access to breakthrough cures and affordable generic drugs, last year the FDA approved more new and generic drugs and medical devices than ever before in our history.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 We also believe that\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 pati\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 nts with te\cf2 <strong>\cf4 r\cf5 </strong>\cf0 min\cf2 <strong>\cf4 a\cf5 </strong>\cf0 l con\cf6 dit\cf0 ion\cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 sho\cf2 <strong>\cf4 u\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ld have access to expe\cf2 <strong>\cf4 r\cf5 </strong>\cf0 im\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ntal treatments t\cf6 hat could potentially save their lives.\
People who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to count\cf0 ry to seek a cure \'96 I want to give them a chance right here at home. It\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 is\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 time for the Congress to give these\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 wonderful\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Americans the \'93right to try.\'94\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 One of my greatest priorities is to reduce \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the price of prescription drugs. In many\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 other countries\cf5 </strong>\cf0 , these drugs cost far less than what we pay\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 in\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the United States.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 T\cf5 </strong>\cf0 hat is\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 w\cf5 </strong>\cf0 hy I have dir\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 cted my Administration to mak\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 fixing the injus\cf2 <strong>\cf4 t\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ice of high drug price\cf2 <strong>\cf4 s\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 one of our top priorities. Prices will come down.\
America has also finally turned the page on decades of unfair trade deals that\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 sacrifice\cf5 </strong>\cf0 d our prosperity and shipped away our companies, our jobs, and our Nation\'92s wealth.\
The era of economic surrender\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 is over.\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
From now on, we expect trading relationships to be fair and to be reciprocal.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 We\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 will work to fix bad trade deals and negotiate new ones.\
And we will protect American worke\cf2 <strong>\cf4 r\cf5 </strong>\cf0 s and American intellectual property, through strong enforcement of our trade rules.\
As we rebuild our industries, it is also time to rebuild our\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 crumbling\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 infrastructure.\
\
America is a nation of builders. We built the Empire State Building\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 in just one year \'96 is it not a disgrace\cf0  \cf4 that\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 it can now take 10 years just to get a permit approved for a simple road\cf6 ?\cf0 \
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 I am asking\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 both parties to come together to give us the safe, fast, reliable, and modern infrastructure our economy needs and our people deserve.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Tonight, I am calling on the Congress to produce a bill that generates at least $1.5 trillion\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 for\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the new infrastructure investment we need.\
Every Federal dollar should be leveraged by partnering with State and local governments and, where appropriate, tapping into private sector investment \'96 to permanently fix the infrastructure deficit.\
Any bill must also streamline the permitting and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 approval\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 process \'96 getting it down to no more than two years, and perhaps even one.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Together, we can reclaim our b\cf0 uilding heritage.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 We will build \cf5 </strong>\cf0 gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways, and waterways\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 across our land. And we will do it with\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 American heart, American hands, and American grit.\
We want every American to know the di\cf2 <strong>\cf4 g\cf5 </strong>\cf0 nity of a hard day\'92s w\cf2 <strong>\cf4 o\cf5 </strong>\cf0 rk. We want every chi\cf2 <strong>\cf4 ld\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to be safe in their home at night. And we want every citizen to be proud of this land that we love.\
We can lift our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 from \cf5 </strong>\cf6 poverty\cf4  \cf2 <strong>\cf4 to prosperity.\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
As tax cuts create new jobs, let us invest in workforce development and job training.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Let us\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 open great vocational schools so our future workers can learn a craft and realize their full potential. And let us \cf2 <strong>\cf4 support\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 working families by supporting paid family leave.\
As America regains its strength, this opportunity must be extended to all citizens. That is why this year we will embark on reforming our\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 prisons\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to help former inmates who have served their time get a second chance.\
\
Struggling communities, especially immigrant communities, will also be helped by immigration policies that focus on the best interests of American workers and American families.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 For decades, open borders have allowed drugs and gangs to\cf0  \cf4 pour into\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our most vulnerable com\cf2 <strong>\cf4 m\cf5 </strong>\cf0 unities. The\cf2 <strong>\cf4 y\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 have allowed millions of low-wage\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 work\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ers to compete \cf6 for\cf0  jobs \cf6 and\cf0  wages against the poorest Americans. Most tragically, they have caused the loss of many innocent lives.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here tonight are two fathers and two mothers: Evelyn Rodriguez, Freddy Cuevas, Elizabeth Alvarado, and Robert Mickens.\'a0Their two teenage daughters \'96 Kayla Cuevas and Nisa Mickens \'96 were close friends on Long \cf2 <strong>\cf4 I\cf5 </strong>\cf0 sland. But in September 2016, on the eve of Nisa\'92s 16th Birthday, neither of them came home. These two precious girls were brut\cf2 <strong>\cf4 a\cf5 </strong>\cf0 lly \cf2 <strong>\cf4 m\cf5 </strong>\cf0 urdered while walking together in their hometown. Six members of the\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 savage\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 gang MS-13 have been charged with Kayla and Nisa\'92s murders. Many of these gang members took advantage of\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 glaring loopholes\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 in our laws to enter the country as unaccompanied alien minors \uc0\u8209 - and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 wound up in\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Kayla and Nisa\'92s high school.\
Evelyn, Elizabeth, Freddy, and Robert: Tonight, everyone in\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 this chamber\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 is praying for you. \cf2 <strong>\cf4 Everyone in America is grieving\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 for you. And\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 320 million hearts are breaking\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 for you. We cannot imagine the depth of your sorrow, but we can make sure that other families never have to endure this pain.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Tonight, I am calling on the Congress to finally close the deadly loopholes that have allowed M\cf5 </strong>\cf0 S-13, and oth\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf0 r criminals,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to break \cf5 </strong>\cf0 into\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 our country.\cf0 \'a0\cf5 </strong>\cf0 We have proposed new legislation that will fix our immigration laws, and support our ICE and Border Patrol Agents, so that this cannot ever happen again.\
The United States is a compassionate nation. We are proud that we do more than any other country to help the needy, the struggling, and the underprivileged all over the world. But as President of the United States, my highest loyalty, my greatest compassion, and my constant concern is for America\'92s children, America\'92s struggling workers, and America\'92s forgotten communities.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 I want \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our youth\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to grow up\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to achieve great things.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 I want\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our poor to have their chance\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to rise.\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
So tonight, I am extending an open hand to work with members of both parties \'96 Democrats and Republicans \'96 to protect our citizens of every background, color, religion, and creed.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 My duty, and the sacred duty of every elected official in this chamber, is to defend\cf5 </strong>\cf0  A\cf2 <strong>\cf4 me\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ricans \'96 to protect their safety, their families, their communities, and their right to the American Dream. \cf2 <strong>\cf4 Because\cf5 </strong>\cf0  Americans are dreamers too.\
\pard\tx5568\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here tonight is one leader in the effort to d\cf2 <strong>\cf4 ef\cf5 </strong>\cf0 end our country:\'a0Homeland Security\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Investigations\cf5 </strong>\cf0  Special Agent Celestino Martinez\'a0\'96 he goes by CJ. CJ served 15 years in the Air Force before becoming an ICE agent and spending the last 15 years fighting gang violence\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 and\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 getting\cf6  dangerous criminals off our streets. At one point, MS-13 leaders ordered CJ\'92s murder. But he did not cave to threats or\cf0  \cf2 <strong>\cf4 fear.\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Last May, he commanded an operation to track down gang members on Long Island. His team has arrested nearly 400, including more than 220 from MS-13.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf6 CJ,\cf2 <strong>\cf6  \cf4 great work. Now let us get\cf6  \cf5 </strong>\cf6 the Congress to send you some reinforcements.\
\cf0 Over the next few weeks, the House and Senate will be voting on an immigration reform package.\
In recent months,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 my Administration\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 has met extensively with both Democrats and Republicans to craft a bipartisan approach to immigration reform. Based on these discussions, we presented the Congress with a detailed proposal that should be supported by both parties as a fair compromise \'96 one where nobody gets\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 everything they want\cf5 </strong>\cf0 , but where our country gets the critical reforms it needs.\
\pard\tx5568\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Here are the four pillars of our plan:\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 first\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 pillar of our\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 frame\cf5 </strong>\cf0 work generously offers a path to citizenship for 1.8 million illegal\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 immigrants\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 who were brought here by their parents at a young age \'96 that covers almost three times more people than the previous administration. Under our plan, those who meet education and work requirements, and show good moral character, will be able to become full citizens of the United States.\
The\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 second\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 pillar\'a0fully\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 secure\cf5 </strong>\cf0 s the border.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 That\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 means building a wall on the Southern border, and it means hiring more heroes like CJ to keep our communities safe. Crucially, our plan closes the terrible loopholes exploited by criminals and terrorists to enter our\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 country\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 \'96 and it finally ends the dangerous practice of \'93catch and release.\'94\
The\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 third\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 pillar ends the\'a0visa lottery\'a0\'96 a program that rando\cf6 mly hands out green cards\cf2 <strong>\cf6  \cf4 without any regard for skill, merit, or the safety\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 of our people. It is time to begin moving towards a merit-based immigration system \'96 one that\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 admit\cf5 </strong>\cf0 s people who are skilled, who want to work, who will contribute to our society, and who will love and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 respect\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 our country.\
The\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 fourth\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 and final pillar protects the nuclear family by\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 end\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ing\'a0chain migration. Under the current broken system, a single immigrant can bring in virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives. Under our plan, we focus on the immediate family by limiting sponsorships to spouses and minor children. This vital reform is necessary, not just for our economy, but for\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 our security, and our future.\cf5 </strong>\
\cf0 \
In recent weeks, two terrorist attacks in New York were made possible by the visa lottery and chain migration. In the age of terrorism, these programs present risks we can no longer afford.\
It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules, and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These four pillars represent a down-the-middle compromise, and one that will create a safe, modern, and lawful immigration system.\
For over 30 years, Washington has tried and failed to solve this problem. This Congress can be the one that finally makes it happen.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Most importantly, these four pillars will produce\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 legislation that fulfills my ironclad pledge to only sign a bill that puts America first. So let us come together, set politics aside, and finally get the job done.\
These reforms will\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 a\cf5 </strong>\cf0 lso support our response to the\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 terrible crisis\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 of opioid and drug addiction.\
In 2016, we lost 64,000 Americans to drug overdoses: 174 deaths per day. Seven per hour.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 We must get\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 much tougher on\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 drug dealers\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 and pushers\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 if we are going to succeed\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 in stopping this scourge.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 My administration is committed to fighting the drug epidemic and helping get treatment for those in need. The struggle will be long and difficult \'97 but, as Americans always do, we will prevail.\
As we have seen tonight,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 the most difficult challenges bring out the best\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 in America.\
We see a vivid expression of this truth in the story of the Holets family of New Mexico. Ryan Holets is 27 years old, and an officer with the Albuquerque Police Department. He is here tonight with his wife Rebecca. Last year, Ryan was on dut\cf6 y when he saw a pregnant, homeless woman preparing to inject heroin. When Ryan told her she was going to harm her unborn child, she began to weep. She told him she did not know where to turn, but badly wanted a safe h\cf0 ome for her baby.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf0 I\cf5 </strong>\cf0 n that moment, Ryan said he felt God speak to him: \'93You will do it \'96 because you can.\'94 He took out a picture of his wife and their four kids. Then, he went home to tell his wife Rebecca. In an instant, she agreed to adopt. The Holets named their new daughter Hope.\
Ryan and Rebecca: You \cf2 <strong>\cf0 embody \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the goodness of our Nation. Thank you, and congratulations.\
As we rebuild America\'92s \cf2 <strong>\cf4 strength and confidence\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 at home, we are also restoring our strength and standing abroad.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Around the world, we face\cf0  rogue regimes, terrorist groups, and rivals like China and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Russia\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 that challenge our interests, our economy, and our\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 values\cf5 </strong>\cf0 . In confronting these dangers, we know that weakness is the surest path to conflict, and unmatched\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 power\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 is the surest means of our defense.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For this reason, I am asking the Congress to end the dangerous defense sequester and fully fund our great military.\
As part of our defense, we must modernize and rebuild our nuclear arsenal, hopefully never having to use it, but making it so strong and powerful that it will deter any acts of aggression.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Perhaps someday in the future there will be a magical moment w\cf5 </strong>\cf6 h\cf2 <strong>\cf4 e\cf5 </strong>\cf6 n\cf0  the countries of the world\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 will get together\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to eliminate their nuclear weapons.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Unfortunately, we are not there yet.\cf5 </strong>\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Last year, I also pledged that we would work with our allies to extinguish ISIS from the face of the Earth.\'a0One year later, I am proud to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has liberated almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria.\cf2 <strong>\cf4 But there is much more work to be done.\cf0  \cf4 We will continue \cf5 </strong>\cf6 our fight until ISIS is defeated.\
\cf0 Army Staff Sergeant Justin Peck is here tonight. Near Raqqa last November, Justin and his comrade, Chief Petty Officer Kenton Stacy, were on a mission\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 clear buildings that ISIS had\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 rig\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ged with explosives so that civilians could return to the city.\
Clearing the second floor of a vital hospital, Kenton Stacy was severely wounded by an explosion. Immediately, Justin bounded into the booby-trapped building and found Kenton in bad shape. He applied pressure to the wound and inserted a tube to reopen an airway. He then performed CPR for 20 straight minutes during the ground transport and maintained\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 artificial\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 respiration through 2 hours of emergency surgery.\
Kenton Stacy would have died if not for Justin\'92s selfless love for a fellow warrior. Tonight, Kenton is recovering in Texas. Raqqa is liberated. And Justin is wearing his new Bronze Star, with a \'93V\'94 for \'93Valor.\'94 Staff Sergeant Peck: All of\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 America\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 salutes you.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Terrorists\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 who do things like place bombs in civilian hospitals are evil. When possible,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 we annihilate them.\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 When necessary, we must be able to detain and question them.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 But we must be clear:\cf0  \cf4 Terrorists are not me\cf5 </strong>\cf0 rely criminals. They are unlawful enemy combatants. And when captured overseas, they should be treated like the terrorists they are.\
In the past, we have foolishly released hundreds of dangerous terrorists, only to meet them again on the battlefield \'96 including the ISIS leader, al-Baghdadi.\
So today, I am keeping another promise.\'a0I just signed an order directing Secretary Mattis to reexamine our military detention policy and to keep open the detention facilities at Guant\'e1namo Bay.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 I am also asking \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the Congress to ensure that, in the fight against ISIS and Al Qaeda, we continue\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to have all \cf5 </strong>\cf6 necessary\cf2 <strong>\cf4  power\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to detain terrorists \'96 wherever we chase them down.\
Our warriors in Afghanistan also have new rules of engagement.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 Along with\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 their heroic Afghan partners, our military is no longer undermined by\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 artificial timelines\cf5 </strong>\cf0 , and we no longer tell our enemies our plans.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Last month, \cf5 </strong>\cf6 I also too\cf0 k an action endorsed unanimously by the Senate just months before:\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 I recognized\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Jerusalem as\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 the capital\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 of Israel.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Shortly afterwards,\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 dozens of countries voted in the United Nations General Assembly against America\'92s sovereign right to make this recognition. American taxpayers generously send those same countries billions of dollars in aid every year.\
That is why, tonight,\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 I am asking\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 the Congress to pass legislation to help ensure American\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 for\cf5 </strong>\cf0 eign-assistance\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 dollars\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 always serve American interests, and only go to America\'92s friends.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf6 As we strengthen friendships\cf0  around the world, we are also restoring clarity about our adversaries.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 When the people\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 of Iran rose up against the crimes of their corrupt dictatorship\cf6 , I \cf0 did not stay silent. America stands with the people of Iran in their courageous\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 struggle for freedom\cf5 </strong>\cf6 .\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 I \cf5 </strong>\cf0 am \cf2 <strong>\cf4 ask\cf5 </strong>\cf0 ing the Congress to address the fundamental flaws in the terrible Iran nuclear deal.\
My Administration has also imposed tough sanctions on \cf2 <strong>\cf6 the\cf0  \cf4 communist and socialist dictatorships\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 in Cuba and Venezuela.\
But no regime has oppressed its own citizens more \cf6 totally\cf0  or brutally than the cruel dictatorship in North Korea.\
North Korea\'92s reckless pursuit of nuclear missiles could very soon threaten our homeland.\
We are waging a campaign of maximum pressure\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 to prevent that from happening. \cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
Past experience has taught us that complacency and concessions only invite aggression and provocation.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 I will\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 no\cf2 <strong>\cf0 t \cf4 repeat the mistakes of past\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 administrations that got us into this dangerous position.\
\
We need only look at the depraved character of the North Korean regime to understand the nature of the nuclear threat it could pose to America and our allies.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Otto Warmbier\'a0was a hardworking student at the University of Virginia. On his way to study abroad in Asia, Otto joined a tour to North Korea. At its conclusion, this wonderful young man was arrested and charged with crimes against the state. After a shameful trial, the dictatorship sentenced Otto to 15 years of hard labor, before returning him to America last June \'96 horribly injured and on the verge of death. He passed away just days after his return.\
Otto\'92s Parents, Fred and Cindy Warmbier, are with us tonight \'96 along with Otto\'92s brother and sister, Austin and Greta.\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 You are powerful witnesses to a menace that threatens our world,\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 and your strength inspires us all. Tonight, we pledge to honor Otto\'92s me\cf6 mory with American resolve.\
Finally, we are joined by one more witness to the ominous nature of this regime. His name is Mr. Ji Seong-ho.\
In 1996, Seong-ho was a starving boy in North Korea. One day, he tried to steal coal from a railroad car to barter for a few scraps of food. In the process, h\cf0 e passed out on the train tracks, exhausted from hunger. He woke up as a train ran over his limbs. He then endured multiple amputations\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 without anything to dull the pain.\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 His brother and sister gave what little food they had to help him recover and ate dirt themselves \'96 permanently stunting their own growth. Later, he was tortured by North Korean authorities after returning from a brief visit to China. His tormentors wanted to know if he had met any Christians. He had \'96 and he resolved to be free.\
Seong-ho traveled thousands of miles on crutches across China and Southeast Asia to freedom. Most of his family followed. His father was caught trying to escape, and was tortured to death.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Today\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 he lives in Seoul, where he rescues other defectors, and broadcasts into Nort\cf6 h Korea what the regime fears the most\cf2 <strong> \cf4 \'96 the truth. \cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
Today he has a new leg, but Seong-ho, I understand you still keep those crutches as a reminder of how far you have come. Your great sacrifice is an inspiration to us all.\
Seong-ho\'92s story is a testament to the yearning of every human soul to live in freedom.\
It was that same yearning for freedom that nearly 250 years ago gave birth to a special place called America. It was a small cluster of colonies caught between a great ocean and\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 a vast wilderness\cf5 </strong>\cf0 . But it\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 was home to an incredible people\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 with a revolutionary idea: that they could rule themselves. That they could cha\cf6 rt their own destiny.\cf0  And that, together, they could light up the world.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 That is what our country has always been about.\'a0That is what Americans have always stood for, always strived for, and always done.\
Atop the dome of this Capitol stands the Statue of Freedom. She stands tall and dignified among the monuments to\cf2 <strong>\cf4  our ancestors\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 who\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 fought\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 and lived and died to protect her.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Monuments to \cf5 </strong>\cf6 Washington\cf0  and Jefferson \'96 to Lincoln and King.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Memorials\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 to the heroes of Yorktown and Saratoga \'96 \cf6 to\cf4  \cf2 <strong>\cf4 young\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 Ameri\cf2 <strong>\cf4 can\cf5 </strong>\cf0 s \cf6 who\cf4  \cf2 <strong>\cf4 shed their blood\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 on the shores of Normandy, and the fields beyond. And others, who went down in the waters of the Pacific and the skies over Asia.\
And freedom stands tall over one more monument: this one. This Capitol. This living monument to the American people.\
A people whose heroes live not only in the past, but all around us \'96 \cf2 <strong>\cf4 defending hope, pride, and the American way. \cf5 </strong>\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 They work in every trade. They sacrifice to raise a family. They care for our children at home. They defend our flag abroad. They are strong moms and brave kids. They are firefighters, police officers, border agents, medics, and Marines.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 But above all else,\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 they are Americans. And this Capitol, this city, and this Nation, belong to them.\
Our task is to respect them, to listen to them, to serve them, to protect them, and to always be worthy of them.\
Americans fill the world with art and music. They push the bounds of science and discovery. And they forever remind us of what\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 we should never forget\cf5 </strong>\cf0 : The people dreamed this country. The people built this country. And it is\cf2 <strong>\cf0  \cf4 the people who are making\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 A\cf2 <strong>\cf4 me\cf5 </strong>\cf0 rica \cf2 <strong>\cf4 great again.\cf5 </strong>\cf0 \
As long as we are proud of who we are, and what we are fighting for, there is nothing we cannot achieve.\
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 As long as we have confidence\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 in our values, faith in our citizens, and trust in our God, \cf2 <strong>\cf4 we will not fail.\cf5 </strong>\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Our families will thrive.\
Our people will prosper.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 And our Nation will forever be safe and strong and proud and mighty and free.\cf5 </strong>\cf4 \
\cf2 <strong>\cf4 Thank you, and God bless\cf0  \cf5 </strong>\cf0 A\cf2 <strong>\cf4 me\cf5 </strong>\cf0 rica.\
}